# Theft in Baltimore: Contributing Factors and Potential Solutions 
If you live in Baltimore, you have a 1 in 15 chance of being a victim of any crime. It is arguably America’s most dangerous city with burglary, larceny and robbery representing 72% of its total crime. These three categories, all falling under the umbrella of “theft”, are addressed in this report which provides findings on their contributing factors and potential solutions. The "Business Question", if you will, of this report is: what are the factors that contribute to the abnormally high amount of theft in Baltimore and how can we work with these factors to lessen theft rates. The factors found to be significant are lack of education and unemployment. However, counterintuitively, citizen's lack of education and unemployment were discovered to hold a significant negative correlation to districts' theft rates. Nevertheless, the majority of perpetrators were unemployed and had minal educational background. This report explains the reason for this dichotomy and provides solutions involving effective government and police policies that will greatly reduce crime in Baltimore.   
# Why This is a Problem
Crime destroys communities. It does so by evoking fear within the populace, leading to major socioeconomic repercussions. Local stores lose their customers, who no longer feel comfortable walking through commercial areas. Hotels and restaurants lose revenue from tourists, who decide upon safer vacation destinations. Worst of all, city residents lose their liberty, confined within the safety of their homes. One concrete impact of crime is loss of property value. According to the Economic Journal, just a 10% decrease in domestic property crime adds more than a 1.7% increase to a home's market price. The Economic Journal's study illustrates how crime affects everyone in a community in one way or another. To address this issue, this report targets Baltimore’s three most prevalent categories of crime and offers the much needed solutions to help mitigate the city's crime epidemic.  
# Solution 
# Future Suggestions 
There are long-term and short-term solutions to this issue. In the short-term, it can be broken down into what the police and can and what the government can do. The police should take into account the amount of theft occurring in highly educated and employed neighborhoods and find policing strategies that prevent theft such as frequent patrols. The city government can partly resolve this issue by having more street lighting and installing surveillance cameras. A University of Tennessee study found that both surveillance cameras and more street lights has a massive impact on reducing crime(4). Additionally, both solutions are relatively inexpensive. At the heart of Baltimore’s crime issue is the discrepancy between wealthy (predominantly educated and employed) and poor (frequently uneducated and unemployed). The less fortunate members of society will continue to commit theft in more affluent areas until the divide between the two is narrowed. In essence, our data analysis indirectly identified two major contributors to poverty: poor education and few job opportunities. In order to combat theft in the long-term, Baltimore City Government must determine the most effective ways to improve educational quality and retention within impoverished neighborhoods as well as lower unemployment through increasing job opportunities for these individuals. Finding the most suitable way to lower unemployment and improve education for impoverished Baltimore residents is a complicated matter but should be heavily researched in order to combat theft. 
